Part 5: Compare Methods

1. What is the use case addressed by your data set? The Better Life Index (BLI) is an alternative measure of level of development, meant to better capture quality-of-life indicators than other common measures such as GDP. This data would be used to answer questions about quality of life along various dimensions across OECD countries.

2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of each of the three technologies?
R
Advantages: R is the most powerful analytical tool among the three technologies, and as a result, any serious analysis would require the data to make its way into R at some point. For instance, it is the only one of the three that can create visualizations.
Disadvantages: R is not really a storage technology--especially if portability across platforms is necessary. This point becomes even more important when scale becomes an issue.

PostgreSQL
Advantages: PostgreSQL is a great way to store data while still making it relatively easy to do simple analytics such as aggregations. This is a capable storage option even up to million of rows.
Disadvantages: It does not have nearly the analytical capabilities of R, and certainly no built-in visualization capabilities (at least that I know of). Additionally, it required the most work to bring the data in and put it in its final format.

MongoDB
Advantages: Easy one-line import process. Scales horizontally easily and flexibly.
Disadvantages: However, by far the most cumbersome of the three to query with. Thus, in my opinion, it is almost purely a storage option from which data can be pulled for analysis in R (or some other analytical software suite).

3. Which technology would you recommend for your use case?
For a dataset of this size or for a one-off analysis of the data, R would be hands-down the technology of choice. If the transformed data resulting from the analysis needed to be persistent (e.g. to be accessible to a website), then barring billions of data points to store, I would store the data using PostgreSQL to complement the analytical capabilities of R.